# Kubernetes Commands

## Overview
- [Kubernetes Commands](#kubernetes-commands)
  - [Overview](#overview)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Installing kubectl](#installing-kubectl)
  - [Checking kubectl Version](#checking-kubectl-version)
  - [Configuring kubectl](#configuring-kubectl)
  - [Getting Cluster Information](#getting-cluster-information)
  - [Listing Nodes](#listing-nodes)
  - [Listing Pods](#listing-pods)
  - [Creating a Deployment](#creating-a-deployment)
  - [Scaling a Deployment](#scaling-a-deployment)
  - [Updating a Deployment](#updating-a-deployment)
  - [Deleting a Deployment](#deleting-a-deployment)
  - [Getting Pod Logs](#getting-pod-logs)
  - [Describing a Resource](#describing-a-resource)
  - [Executing a Command in a Pod](#executing-a-command-in-a-pod)
  - [Forwarding a Port](#forwarding-a-port)
  - [Applying a Configuration File](#applying-a-configuration-file)
  - [Deleting a Resource by Configuration File](#deleting-a-resource-by-configuration-file)

## Introduction

Kubernetes is an open-source system for automating the deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. It groups containers that make up an application into logical units for easy management and discovery.

## Installing kubectl

To install `kubectl`, the Kubernetes command-line tool, follow the instructions on the [official Kubernetes website](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/).

## Checking kubectl Version

To check the version of `kubectl` installed:

```sh
kubectl version --client
```

## Configuring kubectl

To configure `kubectl` to use a specific cluster:

```sh
kubectl config use-context context-name
```

Replace `context-name` with the name of your context.

## Getting Cluster Information

To get information about the Kubernetes cluster:

```sh
kubectl cluster-info
```

## Listing Nodes

To list all nodes in the cluster:

```sh
kubectl get nodes
```

## Listing Pods

To list all pods in the default namespace:

```sh
kubectl get pods
```

To list all pods in all namespaces:

```sh
kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
```

## Creating a Deployment

To create a new deployment:

```sh
kubectl create deployment deployment-name --image=image-name
```

Replace `deployment-name` with the name of your deployment and `image-name` with the name of the image to use.

## Scaling a Deployment

To scale a deployment to a specific number of replicas:

```sh
kubectl scale deployment deployment-name --replicas=number
```

Replace `deployment-name` with the name of your deployment and `number` with the desired number of replicas.

## Updating a Deployment

To update the image of a deployment:

```sh
kubectl set image deployment/deployment-name container-name=image-name
```

Replace `deployment-name` with the name of your deployment, `container-name` with the name of the container, and `image-name` with the new image.

## Deleting a Deployment

To delete a deployment:

```sh
kubectl delete deployment deployment-name
```

Replace `deployment-name` with the name of the deployment you want to delete.

## Getting Pod Logs

To get the logs of a specific pod:

```sh
kubectl logs pod-name
```

Replace `pod-name` with the name of the pod.

To get logs of a specific container in a pod:

```sh
kubectl logs pod-name -c container-name
```

Replace `container-name` with the name of the container.

## Describing a Resource

To describe a specific resource (e.g., pod, deployment):

```sh
kubectl describe resource-type resource-name
```

Replace `resource-type` with the type of resource (e.g., pod, deployment) and `resource-name` with the name of the resource.

## Executing a Command in a Pod

To execute a command in a running pod:

```sh
kubectl exec -it pod-name -- command
```

Replace `pod-name` with the name of the pod and `command` with the command you want to run.

## Forwarding a Port

To forward a port from your local machine to a port on a pod:

```sh
kubectl port-forward pod-name local-port:pod-port
```

Replace `pod-name` with the name of the pod, `local-port` with the local port number, and `pod-port` with the pod port number.

## Applying a Configuration File

To apply a configuration file:

```sh
kubectl apply -f file-name.yaml
```

Replace `file-name.yaml` with the path to your configuration file.

## Deleting a Resource by Configuration File

To delete resources defined in a configuration file:

```sh
kubectl delete -f file-name.yaml
```

Replace `file-name.yaml` with the path to your configuration file.